this is the kitchen of the 1940s house
and the room in the house that's
probably undergone the greatest changes
since the Second World War a look around
the kitchen reveals that there are very
few if any labor-saving devices hardly
any british households had fridges at
the beginning of the Second World War
and none had freezers washing machines
were comparatively few in the kitchen
here there is an electrically heated tub
which was used to do the household
laundry at the time Monday was washing
day in Britain it was a very
time-consuming task that the housewife
had to do in washing and indeed doing
the washing up no detergents just done
with household soap and soap flakes and
even they were rationed from February
1942 onwards China glassware and cutlery
were also all in very short supply
during the Second World War
keeping the 1940s house clean was also a
difficult and time-consuming task a few
households did have electric Hoover's
but most just had the carpet sweeper a
broom dustpan and brush were used for
sweeping up the dirt whilst the kitchen
floor would be mopped up with a bucket
of soap and water lacking a fridge most
of the household edible foods were
placed either in the larder cupboard or
in a separate pantry in some of the
older houses food was rationed in
Britain from the 8th of January 1940
ration books had been issued in November
1939 and the first items food to be
rationed were bacon and ham butter and
sugar other foods were added later meat
going on the ration in March 1940 here
is a typical week's ration of food
Churchill when shown that week's rations
said that doesn't look a bad meal to me
but had to be told but Prime Minister
that's one entire week and the Prime
Minister said oh my poor people fuel was
also rationed during the Second World
War and housewives revised to cook
asthma
as possible in one go to conserve fuel
behind the cornflakes packet there's the
family bread bin bread wasn't actually
rationed during the Second World War but
was rationed from July 1946 for the next
two years during the war a national
wholemeal loaf was introduced but it
wasn't at all popular with the public
you